And just so you know from the Secret Service, there aren't too many people outside protesting, OK. That I can tell you.
A lot of people in here, a lot of people pouring right now. They can get them in. Whatever you can do, fire marshals, we'll appreciate it.
You know I'd love it if the cameras could show this crowd, because it is rather incredible. It is incredible.
We went to center stage almost from day one in the debates. We love those debates.
Our movement is a movement built on love.
We all share the same home, the same dreams and the same hopes for a better future. A wound inflicted upon one member of our community is a wound inflicted upon us all.
I see all those red hats and white hats. It's all happening very fast. It's called: 'Make America Great Again.'
Just like (the media doesn't) want to report that I spoke out forcefully against hatred, bigotry and violence and strongly condemned the neo-Nazis, the White Supremacists, and the KKK.
So here is my first statement when I heard about Charlottesville -- and I have a home in Charlottesville, a lot of people don't know.
So here's what I said, really fast, here's what I said on Saturday: 'We're closely following the terrible events unfolding in Charlottesville, Virginia' -- this is me speaking. 'We condemn in the strongest, possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence.' That's me speaking on Saturday.
I think I can't do much better, right?
I hope they're showing how many people are in this room, but they won't
I call them anarchists. Because, believe me, we have plenty of anarchists. They don't want to talk about the anarchists.
If you're reading a story about somebody, you don't know. You assume it's honest, because it's like the failing New York Times, which is like so bad. It's so bad.
Or the Washington Post, which I call a lobbying tool for Amazon, OK, that's a lobbying tool for Amazon.
Or CNN, which is so bad and so pathetic, and their ratings are going down.
I mean, CNN is really bad, but ABC this morning -- I don't watch it much, but I'm watching in the morning, and they have little George Stephanopoulos talking to Nikki Haley, right? Little George.
I didn't say I love you because you're black, or I love you because you're white, or I love you because you're from Japan, or you're from China, or you're from Kenya, or you're from Scotland or Sweden. I love all the people of our country.
How about -- how about all week they're talking about the massive crowds that are going to be outside. Where are they? Well, it's hot out. It is hot. I think it's too warm.
You know, they show up in the helmets and the black masks, and they've got clubs and they've got everything -- Antifa!
Then I said, racism is evil. Do they report that I said that racism is evil?
Now they only choose, you know, like a half a sentence here or there and then they just go on this long rampage, or they put on these real lightweights all around a table that nobody ever heard of, and they all say what a bad guy I am.
But, I mean do you ever see anything -- and then you wonder why CNN is doing relatively poorly in the ratings
But with me, they wanted me to say it, and I said it. And I said it very clearly, but they refused to put it on.
I hit him with neo-Nazi. I hit them with everything. I got the white supremacists, the neo-Nazi. I got them all in there, let's say. KKK, we have KKK. I got them all.
So then the last one, on Tuesday -- Tuesday I did another one: 'We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence. It has no place in America.'
So that was my words.
Now, you know, I was a good student. I always hear about the elite. You know, the elite. They're elite? I went to better schools than they did. I was a better student than they were. I live in a bigger, more beautiful apartment, and I live in the White House, too, which is really great.
The words were perfect. They only take out anything they can think of, and for the most part, all they do is complain. But they don't put on those words. And they don't put on me saying those words.
And yes, by the way -- and yes, by the way, they are trying to take away our history and our heritage. You see that.
I really think they don't like our country. I really believe that.
Look back there, the live red lights. They're turning those suckers off fast out there. They're turning those lights off fast.
CNN does not want its falling viewership to watch what I'm saying tonight, I can tell you.
If I don't have social media, I probably would not be standing.
Same.
They'll say, 'Donald Trump is in a Twitter-storm.' These are sick people.
You would think -- you would think they'd want to make our country great again, and I honestly believe they don't. I honestly believe it.
The media, in Trump's telling, is rooting against the country. Let me say again: Rhetoric like this is offensive, dishonest and dangerous.
The New York Times essentially apologized after I won the election, because their coverage was so bad, and it was so wrong, and they were losing so many subscribers that they practically apologized.
I must tell you, Fox has treated me fairly. Fox treated me fairly.
How good is Hannity? How good is Hannity? And he's a great guy, and he's an honest guy. And 'Fox and Friends in the Morning' is the best show, and it's the absolute, most honest show, and it's the show I watch.
Oh, those cameras are going off. Wow. That's the one thing, they're very nervous to have me on live television.
I'm a person that wants to tell the truth. I'm an honest person, and what I'm saying, you know is exactly right.
You've got people outside, but not very many.
So, was Sheriff Joe convicted for doing his job?
He was actually convicted for contempt of court after refusing to stop his long-running targeting of Hispanics.
He should have had a jury, but you know what? I'll make a prediction. I think he's going to be just fine, OK?
It was like 115 degrees. I'm out signing autographs for an hour. I was there. That was a hot day.
But believe me, if we have to close down our government, we're building that wall.
Let me say it again, no more government shutdowns. 
'Extreme vetting' -- I came up with that term.
And we have to speak to Mitch and we have to speak to everybody.
Friends, delegates and fellow Americans: I humbly and gratefully accept your nomination for the presidency of the United States.
U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! Who would’ve believed that when we started this journey on June 16, last year, we and I say we, because we are a team, would have received almost 14 million votes, the most in the history of the Republican Party, and that the Republican Party would get 60% more votes than it received eight years ago. Who would've believed this? Who would’ve believed this? The Democrats on the other hand, received 20% fewer votes than they got four years ago, not so good, not so good
Together, we will lead our party back to the White House, and we will lead our country back to safety, prosperity and peace. We will be a country of generosity and warmth. But we will also be a country of law and order.
Our convention occurs at a moment of crisis for our nation. The attacks on our police, and the terrorism in our cities, threaten our very way of life. Any politician who does not grasp this danger is not fit to lead our country.
Americans watching this address tonight have seen the recent images of violence in our streets and the chaos in our communities. Many have witnessed this violence personally, some have even been its victims.
I have a message for all of you: The crime and violence that today afflicts our nation will soon, and I mean very soon, come to an end. Beginning on January 20th, 2017, safety will be restored.
The most basic duty of government is to defend the lives of its own citizens. Any government that fails to do so is a government unworthy to lead.
It is finally time for a straightforward assessment of the state of our nation.
I will present the facts plainly and honestly. We cannot afford to be so politically correct anymore. So if you want to hear the corporate spin, the carefully crafted lies and the media myths, the Democrats are holding their convention next week. Go there.
But here, at our convention, there will be no lies. We will honor the American people with the truth, and nothing else.
These are the facts:
Decades of progress made in bringing down crime are now being reversed by this administration’s rollback of criminal enforcement.
Homicides last year increased by 17% in America’s 50 largest cities. That’s the largest increase in 25 years. In our nation’s capital, killings have risen by 50%. They're up nearly 60% in nearby Baltimore.
In the president’s hometown of Chicago, more than 2,000 people have been the victim of shootings this year alone. And almost 4,000 have been killed in the Chicago area since he took office.
The number of police officers killed in the line of duty has risen by almost 50% compared to this point last year. Nearly 180,000 illegal immigrants with criminal records, ordered deported from our country, are tonight roaming free to threaten peaceful citizens.
The number of new illegal immigrant families who have crossed the border so far this year already exceeds the entire total from 2015. They are being released by the tens of thousands into our communities with no regard for the impact on public safety or resources.
One such border-crosser was released and made his way to Nebraska. There, he ended the life of an innocent young girl named Sarah Root. She was 21 years old and was killed the day after graduating from college with a 4.0 grade point average, No. 1 in her class. Her killer was then released a second time, and he is now a fugitive from the law.
I’ve met Sarah’s beautiful family. But to this administration, their amazing daughter was just one more American life that wasn’t worth protecting. No more. One more child to sacrifice on the altar of open borders.
What about our economy? Again, I will tell you the plain facts that have been edited out of your nightly news and your morning newspaper: Nearly 4 in 10 African American children are living in poverty, while 58% of African American youth are now not employed. Two million more Latinos are in poverty today than when President Obama took his oath of office less than eight years ago. Another 14 million people have left the workforce entirely.
Household incomes are down more than $4,000 since the year 2000. That's 16 years ago. Our manufacturing trade deficit has reached an all-time high. Think of this, think of this: Our trade deficit is nearly $800 billion last year alone. We're gonna fix that.
The budget is no better. President Obama has almost doubled our national debt to more than $19 trillion, and growing. And yet, what do we have to show for it? Our roads and bridges are falling apart, our airports are Third World condition, and 43 million Americans are on food stamps.
Now let us consider the state of affairs abroad.
Not only have our citizens endured domestic disaster, but they've lived through one international humiliation after another. One after another. We all remember the images of our sailors being forced to their knees by their Iranian captors at gunpoint.
This was just prior to the signing of the Iran deal, which gave back to Iran $150 billion and gave us absolutely nothing. It will go down in history as one of the worst deals ever negotiated. Another humiliation came when President Obama drew a red line in Syria – and the whole world knew it meant absolutely nothing.
In Libya, our consulate – the symbol of American prestige around the globe – was brought down in flames. America is far less safe – and the world is far less stable – than when Obama made the decision to put Hillary Clinton in charge of America’s foreign policy. Let's defeat her in November.
I am certain it is a decision President Obama truly regrets. Her bad instincts and her bad judgment – something pointed out by Bernie Sanders – are what caused the disasters unfolding today. Let’s review the record. In 2009, pre-Hillary, ISIS was not even on the map.
Libya was stable. Egypt was peaceful. Iraq was seeing and really a big, big reduction in violence. Iran was being choked by sanctions. Syria was somewhat under control. After four years of Hillary Clinton, what do we have?
ISIS has spread across the region, and the entire world. Libya is in ruins, and our ambassador and his staff were left helpless to die at the hands of savage killers. Egypt was turned over to the radical Muslim brotherhood, forcing the military to retake control. Iraq is in chaos.
Iran is on the path to nuclear weapons. Syria is engulfed in a civil war, and a refugee crisis now threatens the West. After 15 years of wars in the Middle East, after trillions of dollars spent and thousands of lives lost, the situation is worse than it has ever been before.
This is the legacy of Hillary Clinton: death, destruction, terrorism and weakness.
But Hillary Clinton’s legacy does not have to be America’s legacy. The problems we face now – poverty and violence at home, war and destruction abroad – will last only as long as we continue relying on the same politicians who created them in the first place. A change in leadership is required to produce a change in outcomes. Tonight, I will share with you my plan for action for America.
The most important difference between our plan and that of our opponent, is that our plan will put America first. Americanism, not globalism, will be our credo. As long as we are led by politicians who will not put America first, then we can be assured that other nations will not treat America with respect. The respect that we deserve.
The American people will come first once again. My plan will begin with safety at home – which means safe neighborhoods, secure borders and protection from terrorism. There can be no prosperity without law and order. On the economy, I will outline reforms to add millions of new jobs and trillions in new wealth that can be used to rebuild America.
A number of these reforms that I will outline tonight will be opposed by some of our nation’s most powerful special interests. That's because these interests have rigged our political and economic system for their exclusive benefit. Believe me, it's for their benefit.
Big business, elite media and major donors are lining up behind the campaign of my opponent because they know she will keep our rigged system in place. They are throwing money at her because they have total control over every single thing she does. She is their puppet, and they pull the strings.
That is why Hillary Clinton’s message is that things will never change. Never ever. My message is that things have to change – and they have to change right now. Every day I wake up determined to deliver a better life for the people all across this nation that have been neglected, ignored and abandoned.
I have visited the laid-off factory workers and the communities crushed by our horrible and unfair trade deals. These are the forgotten men and women of our country. And they are forgotten, but they're not gonna be forgotten long.
These are people who work hard but no longer have a voice. I am your voice.
I have embraced crying mothers who have lost their children because our politicians put their personal agendas before the national good. I have no patience for injustice.
How great are our police, and how great is Cleveland? Thank you.
I have no patience for injustice, no tolerance for government incompetence, of which there is so much, no sympathy for leaders who fail their citizens.
When innocent people suffer, because our political system lacks the will or the courage or the basic decency to enforce our laws – or worse still, has sold out to some corporate lobbyist for cash – I am not able to look the other way.
And when a secretary of State illegally stores her emails on a private server, deletes 33,000 of them so the authorities can’t see her crime, puts our country at risk, lies about it in every different form and faces no consequence – I know that corruption has reached a level like never ever before in our country.
When the FBI director says that the secretary of State was “extremely careless” and “negligent” in handling our classified secrets, I also know that these terms are minor compared to what she actually did. They were just used to save her from facing justice for her terrible, terrible crimes.
In fact, her single greatest accomplishment may be committing such an egregious crime and getting away with it – especially when others who have done far less have paid so dearly. When that same secretary of State rakes in millions of dollars trading access and favors to special interests and foreign powers, I know the time for action has come.
I have joined the political arena so that the powerful can no longer beat up on people who cannot defend themselves. Nobody knows the system better than me, which is why I alone can fix it. I have seen firsthand how the system is rigged against our citizens, just like it was rigged against Bernie Sanders – he never had a chance.
But his supporters will join our movement, because we will fix his biggest issue: trade deals that strip our country of its jobs and strip us of our wealth as a country. Millions of Democrats will join our movement too because we are going to fix the system so it works fairly and justly for each and every American. In this cause, I am proud to have at my side the next vice president of the United States: Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana. And a great guy.
We will bring the same economic success to America that Mike brought to Indiana. Which is amazing. He is a man of character and accomplishment. He is the man for the job. The first task for our new administration will be to liberate our citizens from the crime and terrorism and lawlessness that threatens our communities.
America was shocked to its core when our police officers in Dallas were so brutally executed. Immediately after Dallas, we have seen continued threats and violence against our law enforcement officials. Law officers have been shot or killed in recent days in Georgia, Missouri, Wisconsin, Kansas, Michigan and Tennessee.
On Sunday, more police were gunned down in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Three were killed, and three were very, very badly injured. An attack on law enforcement is an attack on all Americans. I have a message to every last person threatening the peace on our streets and the safety of our police: When I take the oath of office next year, I will restore law and order to our country. Believe me, believe me.
I will work with, and appoint, the best and brightest prosecutors and law enforcement officials in the country to get the job properly done. In this race for the White House, I am the law-and-order candidate. The irresponsible rhetoric of our president, who has used the pulpit of the presidency to divide us by race and color, has made America a more dangerous environment than frankly I have ever seen and anybody in this room has ever watched or seen.
This administration has failed America’s inner cities. It’s failed them on education. It’s failed them on jobs. It’s failed them in crime. It’s failed them in every way and on every single level.
When I am president, I will work to ensure that all of our kids are treated equally and protected equally
Every action I take, I will ask myself: Does this make better for young Americans in Baltimore, in Chicago, in Detroit, in Ferguson who really in every way have as much of a right to live out their dreams as any other child in America? As any other child?
To make life safe for all of our citizens, we must also address the growing threats we face from outside America. We are going to defeat the barbarians of ISIS and we're going to defeat them fast. Once again, France is the victim of brutal Islamic terrorism.
Men, women and children viciously mowed down. Lives ruined. Families ripped apart. A nation in mourning.
The damage and devastation that can be inflicted by Islamic radicals has been proven over and over – at the World Trade Center, at an office party in San Bernardino, at the Boston Marathon and a military recruiting center in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and many, many other locations.
Only weeks ago, in Orlando, Florida, 49 wonderful Americans were savagely murdered by an Islamic terrorist. This time, the terrorist targeted LGBTQ community. No good, and we're gonna stop it. As your president, I will do everything in my power to protect our LGBTQ citizens from the violence and oppression of a hateful foreign ideology. Believe me.
And I have to say, as a Republican, it is so nice to hear you cheering for what I just said. Thank you.
To protect us from terrorism, we need to focus on three things.
We must have the best, absolutely the best gathering of intelligence anywhere in the world. The best. We must abandon the failed policy of nation building and regime change that Hillary Clinton pushed in Iraq, Libya, Egypt and in Syria. Instead, we must work with all of our allies who share our goal of destroying ISIS and stamping out Islamic terrorism and doing it now, doing it quickly, we're going to win, we're going to win fast.
This includes working with our greatest ally in the region, the state of Israel.
Recently, I have said that NATO was obsolete. Because it did not properly cover terrorism. And also, that many of the member countries were not paying their fair share. As usual, the United States has been picking up the cost. Shortly thereafter, it was announced that NATO will be setting up a new program in order to combat terrorism. A true step in the right direction.
Lastly, and very importantly, we must immediately suspend immigration from any nation that has been compromised by terrorism until such time as proven vetting mechanisms have been put in place. We don't want them in our country.
My opponent has called for a radical 550% increase in Syrian -- think of this, think of this, this is not believable but this is what's happening -- a 550% increase in Syrian refugees on top of existing massive refugee flows coming into our country already under the leadership of President Obama. She proposes this despite the fact that there’s no way to screen these refugees in order to find out who they are or where they come from. I only want to admit individuals into our country who will support our values and love our people.
Anyone who endorses violence, hatred or oppression is not welcome in our country and never ever will be.
Decades of record immigration have produced lower wages and higher unemployment for our citizens, especially for African American and Latino workers. We are going to have an immigration system that works, but one that works for the American people.
On Monday, we heard from three parents whose children were killed by illegal immigrants. Mary Ann Mendoza, Sabine Durden and my friend Jamiel Shaw. They're just three brave representatives of many thousands who have suffered so gravely. Of all my travels in this country, nothing has affected me more, nothing even close I have to tell you, than the time I have spent with the mothers and fathers who have lost their children to violence spilling across our borders. Which we can solve. We have to solve it.
These families have no special interests to represent them. There are no demonstrators to protect them and certainly none to protest on their behalf. My opponent will never meet with them, or share in their pain, believe me. Instead, my opponent wants sanctuary cities. But where was the sanctuary for Kate Steinle? Where was sanctuary for the children of Mary Ann and Sabine and Jamiel? Where was sanctuary for all of, aw, it's so sad to even be talking about it, because we can solve it so quickly. Where was the sanctuary for the other Americans who have been so brutally murdered and who have suffered so horribly?
These wounded American families have been alone. But they are not alone any longer. Tonight, this candidate and the whole nation stand in their corner to support them, to send them our love and to pledge in their honor that we will save countless more families from suffering and the same awful fate.
We are going to build a great border wall to stop illegal immigration, to stop the gangs and the violence, and to stop the drugs from pouring into our communities. I have been honored to receive the endorsement of America’s border patrol agents, and will work directly with them to protect the integrity of our lawful, lawful, lawful immigration system. Lawful.
By ending catch-and-release on the border, we will end the cycle of human smuggling and violence. Illegal border crossings will go down. We will stop it. It won't be happening very much any more, believe me. Peace will be restored. By enforcing the rules for millions who overstay their visas, our laws will finally receive the respect that they deserve.
Tonight, I want every American whose demands for immigration security have been denied – and every politician who has denied them – to listen very, very closely to the words I am about to say.
On January 20th of 2017, the day I take the oath of office, Americans will finally wake up in a country where the laws of the United States are enforced. We are going to be considerate and compassionate to everyone.
But my greatest compassion will be for our own struggling citizens. USA, USA, USA. My plan is the exact opposite of the radical and dangerous immigration policy of Hillary Clinton. Americans want relief from uncontrolled immigration. Which is what we have now. Communities want relief.
Yet Hillary Clinton is proposing mass amnesty, mass immigration and mass lawlessness. Her plan will overwhelm your schools and hospitals, further reduce your jobs and wages, and make it harder for recent immigrants to escape the tremendous cycle of from poverty that they're going through right now, and make it almost impossible for them to join the middle class.
I have a different vision for our workers. It begins with a new, fair trade policy that protects our jobs and stands up to countries that cheat, of which there are many. It’s been a signature message of my campaign from Day One, and it will be a signature feature of my presidency from the moment I take the oath of office.
I have made billions of dollars in business making deals – now I’m going to make our country rich again. Using the greatest business people in the world, which our country has, I am going to turn our bad trade agreements into great trade agreements. America has lost nearly one-third of its manufacturing jobs since 1997, following the enactment of disastrous trade deals supported by Bill and Hillary Clinton.
Remember, it was Bill Clinton who signed NAFTA, one of the worst economic deals ever made by our country or frankly any other country.
Never ever again.
I am going to bring our jobs to Ohio and Pennsylvania and New York and Michigan and all of America – and I am not going to let companies move to other countries, firing their employees along the way, without consequence. Not gonna happen anymore.
My opponent, on the other hand, has supported virtually every trade agreement that has been destroying our middle class. She supported NAFTA, and she supported China’s entrance into the World Trade Organization – another one of her husband’s colossal mistakes and disasters.
She supported the job-killing trade deal with South Korea. She supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which will not only destroy our manufacturing, but it will make America subject to the rulings of foreign governments. And it's not going to happen. I pledge to never sign any trade agreement that hurts our workers, or that diminishes our freedom or our independence. We will never, ever sign these trade deals. America first again. America first.
Instead, I will make individual deals with individual countries.
No longer will we enter into these massive transactions, with many countries, that are thousands of pages long – and which no one from our country even reads or understands. We are going to enforce all trade violations against any country that cheats.
This includes stopping China’s outrageous theft of intellectual property, along with their illegal product dumping, and their devastating currency manipulation. They are the greatest that ever came about, they are the greatest currency manipulators ever.
Our horrible trade agreements with China and many others will be totally renegotiated. That includes renegotiating NAFTA to get a much better deal for America – and we’ll walk away if we don’t get that kind of a deal. Our country is going to start building and making things again.
Next comes the reform of our tax laws, regulations and energy rules. While Hillary Clinton plans a massive, and I mean massive, tax increase, I have proposed the largest tax reduction of any candidate who has run for president this year – Democrat or Republican. Middle-income Americans and businesses will experience profound relief, and taxes will be greatly simplified for everyone. And I mean everyone.
America is one of the highest-taxed nations in the world. Reducing taxes will cause new companies and new jobs to come roaring back into our country. Believe me, it'll happen and it'll happen fast. Then we are going to deal with the issue of regulation, one of the greatest job-killers of them all. Excessive regulation is costing our country as much as $2 trillion a year, and we will end it very, very quickly. We are going to lift the restrictions on the production of American energy. This will produce more than $20 trillion in job creating economic activity over the next four decades.
My opponent, on the other hand, wants to put the great miners and the great steelworkers of our country out of work and out of business. That will never happen when I am president. Our steelworkers and our miners are going back to work again. With these new economic policies, trillions of dollars will start flowing into our country.
This new wealth will improve the quality of life for all Americans. We will build the roads, highways, bridges, tunnels, airports and the railways of tomorrow. This, in turn, will create millions of more jobs. We will rescue kids from failing schools by helping their parents send them to a safe school of their choice.
My opponent would rather protect bureaucrats than serve American children. And that's what she's doing, and that's what she's done.
We will repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare. You will be able to choose your own doctor again.
And we will fix TSA at the airports! Which is a total disaster. Thank you, thank you.
We're going to work with all of our students who are drowning in debt to take the pressure off these people just starting out in their adult lives. Tremendous problem.
We will completely rebuild our depleted military. And the countries that we are protecting, at a massive cost to us, will be asked to pay their fair share.
We will take care of our great veterans like they have never been taken care of before. My just released 10-point plan has received tremendous veterans' support. We will guarantee those who serve this country will be able to visit the doctor or hospital of their choice without waiting five days on a line and dying.
My opponent dismissed the VA scandal – one more sign of how out of touch she really is. We are going to ask every department head in government to provide a list of wasteful spending on projects that we can eliminate in my first 100 days. The politicians have talked about this for years, but I’m going to do it.
We are going to appoint justices of the United States Supreme Court who will uphold our laws and our Constitution.
The replacement of our beloved Justice Scalia will be a person of similar views, principles and judicial philosophies. Very important. This will be one of the most important issues decided by this election.
My opponent wants to essentially abolish the 2nd Amendment. I, on the other hand, received the early and strong endorsement of the National Rifle Assn. and will protect the right of all Americans to keep their families safe.
At this moment, I would like to thank the evangelical and religious community because I'll tell you what, the support they've given me, and I'm not sure I totally deserve it, has been so awesome and has had such a big reason for me being here tonight. True, so true.
They have much to contribute to our politics, yet our laws prevent you from speaking your minds from your own pulpits.
An amendment which, by Lyndon Johnson, many years ago, threatens religious institutions with a loss of their tax-exempt status if they openly advocate their political views. I am going to work very hard to repeal that language and protect free speech for all Americans.
We can accomplish these great things, and so much more – all we need to do is start believing in ourselves and in our country again. It is time to show the whole world that America is back – bigger and better and stronger than ever before.
In this journey, I'm so lucky to have at my side my wife Melania and my wonderful children Don, Ivanka, Eric, Tiffany and Barron. You will always be my greatest source of pride and joy. And by the way, Melania and Ivanka, did they do a job. My dad, Fred Trump, was the smartest and hardest-working man I ever knew. I wonder sometimes what he’d say if he were here to see this and to see me tonight.
It’s because of him that I learned, from my youngest age, to respect the dignity of work and the dignity of working people. He was a guy most comfortable in the company of bricklayers and carpenters,and electricians. And I have a lot of that in me also. I love those people. Then there’s my mother, Mary. She was strong but also warm and fair-minded. She was a truly great mother. She was also one of the most honest and charitable people that I have ever known, and a great, great judge of character. She could pick 'em out from anywhere.
To my sisters Mary Anne and Elizabeth, my brother Robert and my late brother Fred, I will always give you my love. You are most special to me.
I have had a truly great life in business. But now, my sole and exclusive mission is to go to work for our country – to go to work for all of you. It’s time to deliver a victory for the American people. We don't win anymore, but we're going to start winning again! But to do that, we must break free from the petty politics of the past.
America is a nation of believers, dreamers and strivers that is being led by a group of censors, critics and cynics.
Remember: All of the people telling you you can’t have the country you want are the same people telling you that wouldn't stand. I mean they said Trump doesn't stand a chance of being here tonight, not a chance. The same people. Oh, we love defeating those people don't we. We love defeating them. Love it, love it. No longer can we rely on those elites in media and politics who will say anything to keep our rigged system in place.
Instead, we must choose to believe In America. History is watching us now. We don't have much time. But history is watching. It’s waiting to see if we will rise to the occasion, and if we will show the whole world that America is still free and independent and strong.
I am asking for you to support tonight so that I can be your champion in the White House. And I will be your champion. My opponent asks her supporters to recite a three-word loyalty pledge. It reads: "I’m With Her." I choose to recite a different pledge.
My pledge reads: “I’m With You – The American People.”
I am your voice.
So to every parent who dreams for their child and every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you tonight: I am with you. I will fight for you, and I will win for you.
To all Americans tonight, in all of our cities and all of our towns, I make this promise: We will make America strong again.
We will make America proud again.
We will make America safe again.
And we will make America great again.
God bless you and goodnight. I love you.
Wow. Thank you. That's a lot of people, Phoenix, that's a lot of people.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Phoenix. I am so glad to be back in Arizona.
The state that has a very, very special place in my heart. I love people of Arizona and together we are going to win the White House in November.
Now, you know this is where it all began for me. Remember that massive crowd also. So, I said let's go and have some fun tonight. We're going to Arizona, OK?
This will be a little bit different. This won't be a rally speech, per se. Instead, I'm going to deliver a detailed policy address on one of the greatest challenges facing our country today, illegal immigration.
I've just landed having returned from a very important and special meeting with the President of Mexico, a man I like and respect very much. And a man who truly loves his country, Mexico.
And, by the way, just like I am a man who loves my country, the United States.
We agree on the importance of ending the illegal flow of drugs, cash, guns, and people across our border, and to put the cartels out of business.
We also discussed the great contributions of Mexican-American citizens to our two countries, my love for the people of Mexico, and the leadership and friendship between Mexico and the United States. It was a thoughtful and substantive conversation and it will go on for awhile. And, in the end we're all going to win. Both countries, we're all going to win.
 
 
This is the first of what I expect will be many, many conversations. And, in a Trump administration we're going to go about creating a new relationship between our two countries, but it's going to be a fair relationship. We want fairness.
But to fix our immigration system, we must change our leadership in Washington and we must change it quickly.
Sadly, sadly there is no other way. The truth is our immigration system is worse than anybody ever realized. But the facts aren't known because the media won't report on them. The politicians won't talk about them and the special interests spend a lot of money trying to cover them up because they are making an absolute fortune. That's the way it is.
Today, on a very complicated and very difficult subject, you will get the truth. The fundamental problem with the immigration system in our country is that it serves the needs of wealthy donors, political activists and powerful, powerful politicians. It's all you can do. Thank you. Thank you.
Let me tell you who it does not serve. It does not serve you the American people. Doesn't serve you. When politicians talk about immigration reform, they usually mean the following, amnesty, open borders, lower wages. Immigration reform should mean something else entirely. It should mean improvements to our laws and policies to make life better for American citizens.
Thank you. But if we're going to make our immigration system work, then we have to be prepared to talk honestly and without fear about these important and very sensitive issues. For instance, we have to listen to the concerns that working people, our forgotten working people, have over the record pace of immigration and it's impact on their jobs, wages, housing, schools, tax bills and general living conditions.
These are valid concerns expressed by decent and patriotic citizens from all backgrounds, all over. We also have to be honest about the fact that not everyone who seeks to join our country will be able to successfully assimilate. Sometimes it's just not going to work out. It's our right, as a sovereign nation to chose immigrants that we think are the likeliest to thrive and flourish and love us.
Then there is the issue of security. Countless innocent American lives have been stolen because our politicians have failed in their duty to secure our borders and enforce our laws like they have to be enforced. I have met with many of the great parents who lost their children to sanctuary cities and open borders. So many people, so many, many people. So sad. They will be joining me on this stage in a little while and I look forward to introducing, these are amazing, amazing people.
Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive today if not for the open border policies of this administration and the administration that causes this horrible, horrible thought process, called Hillary Clinton.
This includes incredible Americans like 21 year old Sarah Root. The man who killed her arrived at the border, entered Federal custody and then was released into the U.S., think of it, into the U.S. community under the policies of the White House Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. Weak, weak policies. Weak and foolish policies.
He was released again after the crime, and now he's out there at large. Sarah had graduated from college with a 4.0, top student in her class one day before her death.
Also among the victims of the Obama-Clinton open borders policy was Grant Ronnebeck, a 21-year-old convenience store clerk and a really good guy from Mesa, Arizona. A lot of you have known about Grant. 
He was murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member previously convicted of burglary, who had also been released from federal custody, and they knew it was going to happen again.
Another victim is Kate Steinle. Gunned down in the sanctuary city of San Francisco, by an illegal immigrant, deported five previous times. And they knew he was no good.
Then there is the case of 90-year-old Earl Olander, who was brutally beaten and left to bleed to death in his home, 90 years old and defenseless. The perpetrators were illegal immigrants with criminal records a mile long, who did not meet Obama administration standards for removal. And they knew it was going to happen.
In California, a 64-year-old Air Force veteran, a great woman, according to everybody that knew her, Marilyn Pharis, was sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a hammer. Her killer had been arrested on multiple occasions but was never, ever deported, despite the fact that everybody wanted him out.
A 2011 report from the Government Accountability Office found that illegal immigrants and other non-citizens, in our prisons and jails together, had around 25,000 homicide arrests to their names, 25,000.
On top of that, illegal immigration costs our country more than $113 billion dollars a year.
And this is what we get. For the money we are going to spend on illegal immigration over the next 10 years, we could provide 1 million at-risk students with a school voucher, which so many people are wanting.
While there are many illegal immigrants in our country who are good people, many, many, this doesn't change the fact that most illegal immigrants are lower skilled workers with less education, who compete directly against vulnerable American workers, and that these illegal workers draw much more out from the system than they can ever possibly pay back.
And they're hurting a lot of our people that cannot get jobs under any circumstances.
But these facts are never reported. Instead, the media and my opponent discuss one thing and only one thing, the needs of people living here illegally. In many cases, by the way, they're treated better than our vets.
Not going to happen anymore, folks. November 8th. Not going to happen anymore.
The truth is, the central issue is not the needs of the 11 million illegal immigrants or however many there may be -- and honestly we've been hearing that number for years. It's always 11 million.
Our government has no idea. It could be 3 million. It could be 30 million. They have no idea what the number is.
Frankly our government has no idea what they're doing on many, many fronts, folks.
But whatever the number, that's never really been the central issue. It will never be a central issue. It doesn't matter from that standpoint. Anyone who tells you that the core issue is the needs of those living here illegally has simply spent too much time in Washington.
Only the out of touch media elites think the biggest problems facing America -- you know this, this is what they talk about, facing American society today is that there are 11 million illegal immigrants who don't have legal status. And, they also think the biggest thing, and you know this, it's not nuclear, and it's not ISIS, it's not Russia, it's not China, it's global warming.
To all the politicians, donors, and special interests, hear these words from me and all of you today. There is only one core issue in the immigration debate, and that issue is the well being of the American people.
Nothing even comes a close second. Hillary Clinton, for instance, talks constantly about her fears that families will be separated, but she's not talking about the American families who have been permanently separated from their loved ones because of a preventable homicide, because of a preventable death, because of murder.
No, she's only talking about families who come here in violation of the law. We will treat everyone living or residing in our country with great dignity. So important.
We will be fair, just, and compassionate to all, but our greatest compassion must be for our American citizens.
Thank you.
President Obama and Hillary Clinton have engaged in gross dereliction of duty by surrendering the safety of the American people to open borders, and you know it better than anybody right here in Arizona. You know it.
President Obama and Hillary Clinton support sanctuary cities. They support catch and release on the border. they support visa overstays. They support the release of dangerous, dangerous, dangerous, criminals from detention. And, they support unconstitutional executive amnesty.
Hillary Clinton has pledged amnesty in her first 100 days, and her plan will provide Obamacare, Social Security, and Medicare for illegal immigrants, breaking the federal budget.
On top of that she promises uncontrolled, low-skilled immigration that continues to reduce jobs and wages for American workers, and especially for African-American and Hispanic workers within our country. Our citizens.
Most incredibly, because to me this is unbelievable, we have no idea who these people are, where they come from. I always say Trojan Horse. Watch what's going to happen, folks. It's not going to be pretty.
This includes her plan to bring in 620,000 new refugees from Syria and that region over a short period of time. And even yesterday, when you were watching the news, you saw thousands and thousands of people coming in from Syria. What is wrong with our politicians, our leaders if we can call them that. What the hell are we doing?
Hard to believe. Hard to believe. Now that you've heard about Hillary Clinton's plan, about which she has not answered a single question, let me tell you about my plan. And do you notice --
And do you notice all the time for weeks and weeks of debating my plan, debating, talking about it, what about this, what about that. They never even mentioned her plan on immigration because she doesn't want to get into the quagmire. It's a tough one, she doesn't know what she's doing except open borders and let everybody come in and destroy our country by the way.
While Hillary Clinton meets only with donors and lobbyists, my plan was crafted with the input from Federal Immigration offices, very great people. Among the top immigration experts anywhere in this country, who represent workers, not corporations, very important to us.
I also worked with lawmakers, who've led on this issue on behalf of American citizens for many years. And most importantly I've met with the people directly impacted by these policies. So important.
Number one, are you ready? Are you ready?
We will build a great wall along the southern border. 
And Mexico will pay for the wall.
One hundred percent. They don't know it yet, but they're going to pay for it. And they're great people and great leaders but they're going to pay for the wall. On day one, we will begin working on intangible, physical, tall, power, beautiful southern border wall.
We will use the best technology, including above and below ground sensors that's the tunnels. Remember that, above and below.
Above and below ground sensors. Towers, aerial surveillance and manpower to supplement the wall, find and dislocate tunnels and keep out criminal cartels and Mexico you know that, will work with us. I really believe it. Mexico will work with us. I absolutely believe it. And especially after meeting with their wonderful, wonderful president today. I really believe they want to solve this problem along with us, and I'm sure they will.
Number two, we are going to end catch and release. We catch them, oh go ahead. We catch them, go ahead.
Under my administration, anyone who illegally crosses the border will be detained until they are removed out of our country and back to the country from which they came.
And they'll be brought great distances. We're not dropping them right across. They learned that. President Eisenhower. They'd drop them across, right across, and they'd come back. And across.
Then when they flew them to a long distance, all of a sudden that was the end. We will take them great distances. But we will take them to the country where they came from, OK?
Number three. Number three, this is the one, I think it's so great. It's hard to believe, people don't even talk about it. Zero tolerance for criminal aliens. Zero. Zero.
Zero. They don't come in here. They don't come in here.
According to federal data, there are at least 2 million, 2 million, think of it, criminal aliens now inside of our country, 2 million people criminal aliens. We will begin moving them out day one. As soon as I take office. Day one. In joint operation with local, state, and federal law enforcement.
Now, just so you understand, the police, who we all respect -- say hello to the police. Boy, they don't get the credit they deserve. I can tell you. They're great people. But the police and law enforcement, they know who these people are.
They live with these people. They get mocked by these people. They can't do anything about these people, and they want to. They know who these people are. Day one, my first hour in office, those people are gone.
And you can call it deported if you want. The press doesn't like that term. You can call it whatever the hell you want. They're gone.
Beyond the 2 million, and there are vast numbers of additional criminal illegal immigrants who have fled, but their days have run out in this country. The crime will stop. They're going to be gone. It will be over.
They're going out. They're going out fast.
Moving forward. We will issue detainers for illegal immigrants who are arrested for any crime whatsoever, and they will be placed into immediate removal proceedings if we even have to do that.
We will terminate the Obama administration's deadly, and it is deadly, non-enforcement policies that allow thousands of criminal aliens to freely roam our streets, walk around, do whatever they want to do, crime all over the place.
That's over. That's over, folks. That's over.
Since 2013 alone, the Obama administration has allowed 300,000 criminal aliens to return back into United States communities. These are individuals encountered or identified by ICE, but who were not detained or processed for deportation because it wouldn't have been politically correct.
My plan also includes cooperating closely with local jurisdictions to remove criminal aliens immediately. We will restore the highly successful Secure Communities Program. Good program. We will expand and revitalize the popular 287(g) partnerships, which will help to identify hundreds of thousands of deportable aliens in local jails that we don't even know about.
Both of these programs have been recklessly gutted by this administration. And those were programs that worked.
This is yet one more area where we are headed in a totally opposite direction. There's no common sense, there's no brain power in our administration by our leader, or our leaders. None, none, none.
Here’s an interesting graphic from a study published this summer on voting attitudes among people who heard incumbents use restrictive rhetoric on immigration -- tough enforcement, no amnesty, deportations -- and its affect on their own opinions.
On my first day in office I am also going to ask Congress to pass Kate's Law, named for Kate Steinle.
To ensure that criminal aliens convicted of illegal reentry receive strong mandatory minimum sentences. Strong.
And then we get them out.
Another reform I'm proposing is the passage of legislation named for Detective Michael Davis and Deputy Sheriff Danny Oliver, to law enforcement officers recently killed by a previously deported illegal immigrant.
The Davis-Oliver bill will enhance cooperation with state and local authorities to ensure that criminal immigrants and terrorists are swiftly, really swiftly, identified and removed. And they will go face, believe me. They're going to go.
We're going to triple the number of ICE deportation officers.
Within ICE I am going to create a new special deportation task force focused on identifying and quickly removing the most dangerous criminal illegal immigrants in America who have evaded justice just like Hillary Clinton has evaded justice, OK?
Maybe they'll be able to deport her.
The local police who know every one of these criminals, and they know each and every one by name, by crime, where they live, they will work so fast. And our local police will be so happy that they don't have to be abused by these thugs anymore. There's no great mystery to it, they've put up with it for years, and no finally we will turn the tables and law enforcement and our police will be allowed to clear up this dangerous and threatening mess.
We're also going to hire 5,000 more Border Patrol agents.
Who gave me their endorsement, 16,500 gave me their endorsement.
And put more of them on the border instead of behind desks which is good. We will expand the number of border patrol stations significantly.
I've had a chance to spend time with these incredible law enforcement officers, and I want to take a moment to thank them. What they do is incredible.
And getting their endorsement means so much to me. More to me really than I can say. Means so much. First time they've ever endorsed a presidential candidate.
Number four, block funding for sanctuary cities. We block the funding. No more funds.
We will end the sanctuary cities that have resulted in so many needless deaths. Cities that refuse to cooperate with federal authorities will not receive taxpayer dollars, and we will work with Congress to pass legislation to protect those jurisdictions that do assist federal authorities.
Number five, cancel unconstitutional executive orders and enforce all immigration laws.
We will immediately terminate President Obama's two illegal executive amnesties in which he defied federal law and the Constitution to give amnesty to approximately five million illegal immigrants, five million.
And how about all the millions that are waiting on line, going through the process legally? So unfair.
Hillary Clinton has pledged to keep both of these illegal amnesty programs, including the 2014 amnesty which has been blocked by the United States Supreme Court. Great.
Clinton has also pledged to add a third executive amnesty. And by the way, folks, she will be a disaster for our country, a disaster in so many other ways.
And don't forget the Supreme Court of the United States. Don't forget that when you go to vote on November 8. And don't forget your Second Amendment. And don't forget the repeal and replacement of Obamacare.
And don't forget building up our depleted military. And don't forget taking care of our vets. Don't forget our vets. They have been forgotten.
Clinton's plan would trigger a constitutional crisis unlike almost anything we have ever seen before. In effect, she would be abolishing the lawmaking powers of Congress in order to write her own laws from the Oval Office. And you see what bad judgment she has. She has seriously bad judgment.
Can you imagine? In a Trump administration all immigration laws will be enforced, will be enforced. As with any law enforcement activity, we will set priorities. But unlike this administration, no one will be immune or exempt from enforcement. And ICE and Border Patrol officers will be allowed to do their jobs the way their jobs are supposed to be done.
Anyone who has entered the United States illegally is subject to deportation. That is what it means to have laws and to have a country. Otherwise we don't have a country.
Our enforcement priorities will include removing criminals, gang members, security threats, visa overstays, public charges. That is those relying on public welfare or straining the safety net along with millions of recent illegal arrivals and overstays who've come here under this current corrupt administration.
Number six, we are going to suspend the issuance of visas to any place where adequate screening cannot occur.
According to data provided by the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration, and the national interest between 9/11 and the end of 2014, at least 380 foreign born individuals were convicted in terror cases inside the United States. And even right now the largest number of people are under investigation for exactly this that we've ever had in the history of our country.
Our country is a mess. We don't even know what to look for anymore, folks. Our country has to straighten out. And we have to straighten out fast.
The number is likely higher. But the administration refuses to provide this information, even to Congress. As soon as I enter office I am going to ask the Department of State, which has been brutalized by Hillary Clinton, brutalized.
Homeland Security and the Department of Justice to begin a comprehensive review of these cases in order to develop a list of regions and countries from which immigration must be suspended until proven and effective vetting mechanisms can be put in place.
I call it extreme vetting right? Extreme vetting. I want extreme. It's going to be so tough, and if somebody comes in that's fine but they're going to be good. It's extreme.
And if people don't like it, we've got have a country folks. Got to have a country. Countries in which immigration will be suspended would include places like Syria and Libya. And we are going to stop the tens of thousands of people coming in from Syria. We have no idea who they are, where they come from. There's no documentation. There's no paperwork. It's going to end badly folks. It's going to end very, very badly.
For the price of resettling, one refugee in the United States, 12 could be resettled in a safe zone in their home region. Which I agree with 100 percent. We have to build safe zones and we'll get the money from Gulf states. We don't want to put up the money. We owe almost $20 trillion. Doubled since Obama took office, our national debt.
But we will get the money from Gulf states and others. We'll supervise it. We'll build safe zones which is something that I think all of us want to see.
Another reform, involves new screening tests for all applicants that include, and this is so important, especially if you get the right people. And we will get the right people. An ideological certification to make sure that those we are admitting to our country share our values and love our people.
Thank you. We're very proud of our country. Aren't we? Really? With all it's going through, we're very proud of our country. For instance, in the last five years, we've admitted nearly 100,000 immigrants from Iraq and Afghanistan. And these two countries according to Pew Research, a majority of residents say that the barbaric practice of honor killings against women are often or sometimes justified. That's what they say.
That's what they say. They're justified. Right? And we're admitting them to our country. Applicants will be asked their views about honor killings, about respect for women and gays and minorities. Attitudes on radical Islam, which our President refuses to say and many other topics as part of this vetting procedure. And if we have the right people doing it, believe me, very, very few will slip through the cracks. Hopefully, none.
Number seven, we will insure that other countries take their people back when they order them deported.
There are at least 23 countries that refuse to take their people back after they've been ordered to leave the United States. Including large numbers of violent criminals, they won't take them back. So we say, OK, we'll keep them. Not going to happen with me, not going to happen with me.
Due to a Supreme Court decision, if these violent offenders cannot be sent home, our law enforcement officers have to release them into your communities.
And by the way, the results are horrific, horrific. There are often terrible consequences, such as Casey Chadwick's tragic death in Connecticut just last year. Yet despite the existence of a law that commands the Secretary of State to stop issuing visas to these countries.
Secretary Hillary Clinton ignored this law and refused to use this powerful tool to bring nations into compliance. And, they would comply if we would act properly.
In other words, if we had leaders that knew what they were doing, which we don't.
The result of her misconduct was the release of thousands and thousands of dangerous criminal aliens who should have been sent home to their countries. Instead we have them all over the place. Probably a couple in this room as a matter of fact, but I hope not.
According to a report for the Boston Globe from the year 2008 to 2014 nearly 13,000 criminal aliens were released back into U.S. communities because their home countries would not, under any circumstances, take them back. Hard to believe with the power we have. Hard to believe.
We're like the big bully that keeps getting beat up. You ever see that? The big bully that keeps getting beat up.
These 13,000 release occurred on Hillary Clinton's watch. She had the power and the duty to stop it cold, and she decided she would not do it.
And, Arizona knows better than most exactly what I'm talking about.
Those released include individuals convicted of killings, sexual assaults, and some of the most heinous crimes imaginable.
The Boston Globe writes that a Globe review of 323 criminals released in New England from 2008 to 2012 found that as many as 30 percent committed new offenses, including rape, attempted murder, and child molestation. We take them, we take them.
Number eight, we will finally complete the biometric entry-exit visa tracking system which we need desperately. For years Congress has required biometric entry-exit visa tracking systems, but it has never been completed. The politicians are all talk, no action, never happens. Never happens.
Hillary Clinton, all talk. Unfortunately when there is action it's always the wrong decision. You ever notice? In my administration we will ensure that this system is in place. And, I will tell you, it will be on land, it will be on sea, it will be in air. We will have a proper tracking system.
Approximately half of new illegal immigrants came on temporary visas and then never, ever left. Why should the? Nobody's telling them to leave. Stay as long as you want, we'll take care of you.
Beyond violating our laws, visa overstays, pose -- and they really are a big problem, pose a substantial threat to national security. The 9/11 Commission said that this tracking system would be a high priority and would have assisted law enforcement and intelligence officials in august and September in 2001 in conducting a search for two of the 9/11 hijackers that were in the United States expired visas.
And, you know what that would have meant, what that could have meant. Wouldn't that have been wonderful, right? What that could have meant?
Last year alone nearly half a million individuals overstayed their temporary visas. Removing these overstays will be a top priority of my administration.
If people around the world believe they can just come on a temporary visa and never, ever leave, the Obama-Clinton policy, that's what it is, then we have a completely open border, and we no longer have a country.
We must send a message that visa expiration dates will be strongly enforced.
Number nine, we will turn off the jobs and benefits magnet.
We will ensure that E-Verify is used to the fullest extent possible under existing law, and we will work with Congress to strengthen and expand its use across the country.
Immigration law doesn't exist for the purpose of keeping criminals out. It exists to protect all aspects of American life. The work site, the welfare office, the education system, and everything else.
That is why immigration limits are established in the first place. If we only enforced the laws against crime, then we have an open border to the entire world. We will enforce all of our immigration laws.
And the same goes for government benefits. The Center for Immigration Studies estimates that 62 percent of households headed by illegal immigrants use some form of cash or non-cash welfare programs like food stamps or housing assistance.
Tremendous costs, by the way, to our country. Tremendous costs. This directly violates the federal public charge law designed to protect the United States Treasury. Those who abuse our welfare system will be priorities for immediate removal.
Number 10, we will reform legal immigration to serve the best interests of America and its workers, the forgotten people. Workers. We're going to take care of our workers.
And by the way, and by the way, we're going to make great trade deals. We're going to renegotiate trade deals. We're going to bring our jobs back home. We're going to bring our jobs back home.
We have the most incompetently worked trade deals ever negotiated probably in the history of the world, and that starts with NAFTA. And now they want to go TPP, one of the great disasters.
We're going to bring our jobs back home. And if companies want to leave Arizona and if they want to leave other states, there's going to be a lot of trouble for them. It's not going to be so easy. There will be consequence. Remember that. There will be consequence. They're not going to be leaving, go to another country, make the product, sell it into the United States, and all we end up with is no taxes and total unemployment. It's not going to happen. There will be consequences.
We've admitted 59 million immigrants to the United States between 1965 and 2015. Many of these arrivals have greatly enriched our country. So true. But we now have an obligation to them and to their children to control future immigration as we are following, if you think, previous immigration waves.
We've had some big waves. And tremendously positive things have happened. Incredible things have happened. To ensure assimilation we want to ensure that it works. Assimilation, an important word. Integration and upward mobility.
Within just a few years immigration as a share of national population is set to break all historical records. The time has come for a new immigration commission to develop a new set of reforms to our legal immigration system in order to achieve the following goals.
To keep immigration levels measured by population share within historical norms. To select immigrants based on their likelihood of success in U.S. society and their ability to be financially self- sufficient.
We take anybody. Come on in, anybody. Just come on in. Not anymore.
You know, folks, it's called a two-way street. It is a two-way street, right? We need a system that serves our needs, not the needs of others. Remember, under a Trump administration it's called America first. Remember that.
To choose immigrants based on merit. Merit, skill, and proficiency. Doesn't that sound nice? And to establish new immigration controls to boost wages and to ensure that open jobs are offered to American workers first. And that in particular African- American and Latino workers who are being shut out in this process so unfairly.
And Hillary Clinton is going to do nothing for the African- American worker, the Latino worker. She's going to do nothing. Give me your vote, she says, on November eighth. And then she'll say, so long, see you in four years. That's what it is.
She is going to do nothing. And just look at the past. She's done nothing. She's been there for 35 years. She's done nothing. And I say what do you have to lose? Choose me. Watch how good we're going to do together. Watch.
You watch. We want people to come into our country, but they have to come into our country legally and properly vetted, and in a manner that serves the national interest. We've been living under outdated immigration rules from decades ago. They're decades and decades old.
To avoid this happening in the future, I believe we should sunset our visa laws so that Congress is forced to periodically revise and revisit them to bring them up to date. They're archaic. They're ancient. We wouldn't put our entire federal budget on auto pilot for decades, so why should we do the same for the very, very complex subject of immigration?
So let's now talk about the big picture. These 10 steps, if rigorously followed and enforced, will accomplish more in a matter of months than our politicians have accomplished on this issue in the last 50 years. It's going to happen, folks. Because I am proudly not a politician, because I am not behold to any special interest, I've spent a lot of money on my campaign, I'll tell you. I write those checks. Nobody owns Trump.
I will get this done for you and for your family. We'll do it right. You'll be proud of our country again. We'll do it right. We will accomplish all of the steps outlined above. And, when we do, peace and law and justice and prosperity will prevail. Crime will go down. Border crossings will plummet. Gangs will disappear.
And the gangs are all over the place. And welfare use will decrease. We will have a peace dividend to spend on rebuilding America, beginning with our American inner cities. We're going to rebuild them, for once and for all.
For those here illegally today, who are seeking legal status, they will have one route and one route only. To return home and apply for reentry like everybody else, under the rules of the new legal immigration system that I have outlined above. Those who have left to seek entry --
Thank you. Thank you. Those who have left to seek entry under this new system -- and it will be an efficient system -- will not be awarded surplus visas, but will have to apply for entry under the immigration caps or limits that will be established in the future.
We will break the cycle of amnesty and illegal immigration. We will break the cycle. There will be no amnesty.
Our message to the world will be this. You cannot obtain legal status or become a citizen of the United States by illegally entering our country. Can't do it.
This declaration alone will help stop the crisis of illegal crossings and illegal overstays, very importantly. People will know that you can't just smuggle in, hunker down and wait to be legalized. It's not going to work that way. Those days are over.
Importantly, in several years when we have accomplished all of our enforcement and deportation goals and truly ended illegal immigration for good, including the construction of a great wall, which we will have built in record time. And at a reasonable cost, which you never hear from the government.
And the establishment of our new lawful immigration system then and only then will we be in a position to consider the appropriate disposition of those individuals who remain.
That discussion can take place only in an atmosphere in which illegal immigration is a memory of the past, no longer with us, allowing us to weigh the different options available based on the new circumstances at the time
Right now, however, we're in the middle of a jobs crisis, a border crisis and a terrorism crisis like never before. All energies of the federal government and the legislative process must now be focused on immigration security. That is the only conversation we should be having at this time, immigration security. Cut it off.
Whether it's dangerous materials being smuggled across the border, terrorists entering on visas or Americans losing their jobs to foreign workers, these are the problems we must now focus on fixing. And the media needs to begin demanding to hear Hillary Clinton's answer on how her policies will affect Americans and their security.
These are matters of life and death for our country and its people, and we deserve answers from Hillary Clinton. And do you notice, she doesn't answer.
She didn't go to Louisiana. She didn't go to Mexico. She was invited.
She doesn't have the strength or the stamina to make America great again. Believe me.
What we do know, despite the lack of media curiosity, is that Hillary Clinton promises a radical amnesty combined with a radical reduction in immigration enforcement. Just ask the Border Patrol about Hillary Clinton. You won't like what you're hearing.
The result will be millions more illegal immigrants; thousands of more violent, horrible crimes; and total chaos and lawlessness. That's what's going to happen, as sure as you're standing there.
This election, and I believe this, is our last chance to secure the border, stop illegal immigration and reform our laws to make your life better. I really believe this is it. This is our last time. November 8. November 8. You got to get out and vote on November 8.
It's our last chance. It's our last chance. And that includes Supreme Court justices and Second Amendment. Remember that.
So I want to remind everyone what we're fighting for and who we are fighting for.
I am going to ask -- these are really special people that I've gotten to know. I’m going to ask all the Angel Moms to come join me on the stage right now. These are amazing women.
These are amazing people.
Today I‘d like to share my thoughts about the stakes in this election.
People have asked me why I am running for President.
I have built an amazing business that I love and I get to work side-by-side with my children every day.
We come to work together and turn visions into reality.
We think big, and then we make it happen.
I love what I do, and I am grateful beyond words to the nation that has allowed me to do it.
So when people ask me why I am running, I quickly answer: I am running to give back to this country which has been so good to me.
When I see the crumbling roads and bridges, or the dilapidated airports, or the factories moving overseas to Mexico, or to other countries, I know these problems can all be fixed, but not by Hillary Clinton – only by me.
The fact is, we can come back bigger and better and stronger than ever before --Jobs, jobs, jobs!
Everywhere I look, I see the possibilities of what our country could be. But we can’t solve any of these problems by relying on the politicians who created them.
We will never be able to fix a rigged system by counting on the same people who rigged it in the first place.
The insiders wrote the rules of the game to keep themselves in power and in the money.
That’s why we’re asking Bernie Sanders’ voters to join our movement: so together we can fix the system for ALL Americans. Importantly, this includes fixing all of our many disastrous trade deals.
Because it’s not just the political system that’s rigged. It’s the whole economy.
It’s rigged by big donors who want to keep down wages.
It’s rigged by big businesses who want to leave our country, fire our workers, and sell their products back into the U.S. with absolutely no consequences for them.
It’s rigged by bureaucrats who are trapping kids in failing schools.
It’s rigged against you, the American people.
Hillary Clinton who, as most people know, is a world class liar –
just look at her pathetic email and server statements, or her phony landing in Bosnia where she said she was under attack but the attack turned out to be young girls handing her flowers, a total self-serving lie.
Brian Williams’ career was destroyed for saying far less.
Yesterday, she even tried to attack me and my many businesses. But here is the bottom line: I started off in Brooklyn New York, not so long ago, with a small loan and built a business worth over 10 billion dollars. I have always had a talent for building businesses and, importantly, creating jobs. That is a talent our country desperately needs.
I am running for President to end the unfairness and to put you, the American worker, first.
We are going to put America First, and we are going to Make America Great again.
This election will decide whether we are ruled by the people, or by the politicians.
Here is my promise to the American voter:
If I am elected President, I will end the special interest monopoly in Washington, D.C.
The other candidate in this race has spent her entire life making money for special interests – and taking money from special interests.
Hillary Clinton has perfected the politics of personal profit and theft.
She ran the State Department like her own personal hedge fund – doing favors for oppressive regimes, and many others, in exchange for cash.
Then, when she left, she made $21.6 million giving speeches to Wall Street banks and other special interests – in less than 2 years – secret speeches that she does not want to reveal to the public.
Together, she and Bill made $153 million giving speeches to lobbyists, CEOs, and foreign governments in the years since 2001.
They totally own her, and that will never change.
The choice in this election is a choice between taking our government back from the special interests, or surrendering our last scrap of independence to their total and complete control.
Those are the stakes.
Hillary Clinton wants to be President. But she doesn't have the temperament, or, as Bernie Sanders' said, the judgement, to be president.
She believes she is entitled to the office.
Her campaign slogan is “I’m with her.”
You know what my response to that is? I’m with you: the American people.
She thinks it’s all about her.
I know it’s all about you – I know it’s all about making America Great Again for All Americans.
Our country lost its way when we stopped putting the American people first.
We got here because we switched from a policy of Americanism – focusing on what’s good for America’s middle class – to a policy of globalism, focusing on how to make money for large corporations who can move their wealth and workers to foreign countries all to the detriment of the American worker and the American economy.
We reward companies for offshoring, and we punish companies for doing business in America and keeping our workers employed.
This is not a rising tide that lifts all boats.
This is a wave of globalization that wipes out our middle class and our jobs.
We need to reform our economic system so that, once again, we can all succeed together, and America can become rich again.
That’s what we mean by America First.
Our country will be better off when we start making our own products again, bringing our once great manufacturing capabilities back to our shores.
Our Founders understood this.
One of the first major bills signed by George Washington called for “the encouragement and protection of manufactur[ing]” in America.
Our first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, warned us by saying:
“The abandonment of the protective policy by the American government will produce want and ruin among our people.”
I have visited the cities and towns across America and seen the devastation caused by the trade policies of Bill and Hillary Clinton.
Hillary Clinton supported Bill Clinton’s disastrous NAFTA, just like she supported China’s entrance into the World Trade Organization.
We’ve lost nearly one-third of our manufacturing jobs since these two Hillary-backed agreements were signed.
Our trade deficit with China soared 40% during Hillary Clinton’s time as Secretary of State -- a disgraceful performance for which she should not be congratulated, but rather scorned.
Then she let China steal hundreds of billions of dollars in our intellectual property – a crime which is continuing to this day.
Hillary Clinton gave China millions of our best jobs, and effectively let China completely rebuild itself.
In return, Hillary Clinton got rich!
The book Clinton Cash, by Peter Schweitzer, documents how Bill and Hillary used the State Department to enrich their family at America’s expense.
She gets rich making you poor.
Here is a quote from the book: “At the center of US policy toward China was Hillary Clinton…at this critical time for US-china relations, Bill Clinton gave a number of speeches that were underwritten by the Chinese government and its supporters.”
These funds were paid to the Clinton bank account while Hillary was negotiating with China on behalf of the United States.
She sold out our workers, and our country, for Beijing.
Hillary Clinton has also been the biggest promoter of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which will ship millions more of our jobs overseas – and give up Congressional power to an international foreign commission.
Now, because I have pointed out why it would be such a disastrous deal, she is pretending that she is against it. She has even deleted this record of total support from her book – deletion is something she is very good at -- (at least 30,000 emails are missing.)
But this latest Clinton cover-up doesn’t change anything: if she is elected president, she will adopt the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and we will lose millions of jobs and our economic independence for good. She will do this, just as she has betrayed the American worker on trade at every single stage of her career – and it will be even worse than the Clintons’ NAFTA deal.
I want trade deals, but they have to be great for the United States and our workers.
We don't make great deals anymore, but we will once I become president.
It’s not just our economy that’s been corrupted, but our foreign policy too.
The Hillary Clinton foreign policy has cost America thousands of lives and trillions of dollars – and unleashed ISIS across the world.
No Secretary of State has been more wrong, more often, and in more places than Hillary Clinton.
Her decisions spread death, destruction and terrorism everywhere she touched.
Among the victims is our late Ambassador, Chris Stevens. He was left helpless to die as Hillary Clinton soundly slept in her bed -- that's right, when the phone rang at
3 o'clock in the morning, she was sleeping.
Ambassador Stevens and his staff in Libya made hundreds of requests for security.
Hillary Clinton’s State Department refused them all.
She started the war that put him in Libya, denied him the security he asked for, then left him there to die.
To cover her tracks, Hillary lied about a video being the cause of his death.
Here is what one of the victim’s mothers had to say:
“I want the whole world to know it: she lied to my face, and you don’t want this person to be president.”
In 2009, before Hillary Clinton was sworn in, it was a different world.
Libya was cooperating.
Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence.
Syria was under control.
Iran was being choked by sanctions.
Egypt was governed by a friendly regime that honored its peace treaty with Israel.
ISIS wasn’t even on the map.
Fast forward to 2013: In just four years, Secretary Clinton managed
to almost single-handedly destabilize the entire Middle East.
Her invasion of Libya handed the country over to the ISIS barbarians.
Thanks to Hillary Clinton, Iran is now the dominant Islamic power in the Middle East, and on the road to nuclear weapons.
Hillary Clinton’s support for violent regime change in Syria has thrown the country into one of the bloodiest civil wars anyone has ever seen – while giving ISIS a launching pad for terrorism against the West.
She helped force out a friendly regime in Egypt and replace it with the radical Muslim Brotherhood. The Egyptian military has retaken control, but Clinton has opened the Pandora’s box of radical Islam.
Then, there was the disastrous strategy of announcing our departure date from Iraq, handing large parts of the country over to ISIS killers.
ISIS threatens us today because of the decisions Hillary Clinton has made.
ISIS also threatens peaceful Muslims across the Middle East, and peaceful Muslims across the world, who have been terribly victimized by horrible brutality – and who only want to raise their kids in peace and safety.
In short, Hillary Clinton’s tryout for the presidency has produced one deadly foreign policy disaster after another.
It all started with her bad judgment in supporting the War in Iraq in the first place.
Though I was not in government service, I was among the earliest to criticize
the rush to war, and yes, even before the war ever started.
But Hillary Clinton learned nothing from Iraq, because when she got into power,
she couldn’t wait to rush us off to war in Libya.
She lacks the temperament, the judgment and the competence to lead.
In the words of a Secret Service agent posted outside the Oval Office:
“She simply lacks the integrity and temperament to serve
in the office…from the bottom of my soul, I know this to be true…Her leadership style – volcanic, impulsive…disdainful of the rules set for everyone else – hasn’t changed a bit.”
Perhaps the most terrifying thing about Hillary Clinton’s foreign policy is that she refuses to acknowledge the threat posed by Radical Islam.
In fact, Hillary Clinton supports a radical 550% increase in Syrian refugees coming into the United States, and that's an increase over President Obama's already very high number.
Under her plan, we would admit hundreds of thousands of refugees from the most dangerous countries on Earth – with no way to screen who they are or what they believe.
Already, hundreds of recent immigrants and their children have been convicted of terrorist activity inside the U.S.
The father of the Orlando shooter was a Taliban supporter from Afghanistan, one of the
most repressive anti-gay and anti-women regimes on Earth.
I only want to admit people who share our values and love our people.
Hillary Clinton wants to bring in people who believe women should be enslaved
and gays put to death.
Maybe her motivation lies among the more than 1,000 foreign donations Hillary failed to disclose while at the State Department.
Hillary Clinton may be the most corrupt person ever to seek the presidency.
Here is some more of what we learned from the book,
Clinton Cash:
A foreign telecom giant faced possible State Department sanctions for providing technology to Iran, and other oppressive regimes. So what did this company do? For the first time ever, they decided to pay Bill Clinton $750,000 for a single speech. The Clintons got their cash, the telecom company escaped sanctions.
Hillary Clinton’s State Department approved the transfer of 20% of America’s uranium holdings to Russia, while 9 investors in the deal funneled $145 million to the Clinton Foundation.
Hillary Clinton appointed a top donor to a national security board with top secret access – even though he had no national security credentials.
Hillary Clinton accepted $58,000 in jewelry from the government of Brunei when she was Secretary of State – plus millions more for her foundation. The Sultan of Brunei has pushed oppressive Sharia law, including the punishment of death by stoning for being gay. The government of Brunei also stands to be one of the biggest beneficiaries of Hillary’s Trans-Pacific Partnership, which she would absolutely approve if given the chance.
Hillary Clinton took up to $25 million from Saudi Arabia, where being gay is also punishable by death.
Hillary took millions from Kuwait, Qatar, Oman and many other countries that horribly abuse women and LGBT citizens.
To cover-up her corrupt dealings, Hillary Clinton illegally stashed her State Department emails on a private server.
Her server was easily hacked by foreign governments – perhaps even by her financial backers in Communist China – putting all of America in danger.
Then there are the 33,000 emails she deleted.
While we may not know what is in those deleted emails, our enemies probably do.
So they probably now have a blackmail file over someone who wants to be President of the United States.
This fact alone disqualifies her from the Presidency.
We can’t hand over our government to someone whose deepest, darkest secrets may be in the hands of our enemies.
National security is also immigration security –
and Hillary wants neither.
Hillary Clinton has put forward the most radical immigration platform in the history of the United States.
She has pledged to grant mass amnesty and in her first 100 days, end virtually all immigration enforcement, and thus create totally open borders in the United States
The first victims of her radical policies will be poor African-American and Hispanic workers who need jobs. They are the ones she will hurt the most.
Let me share with you a letter our campaign received from Mary Ann Mendoza.
She lost her amazing son, Police Sergeant Brandon Mendoza, after he was killed by an illegal immigrant because of the open borders policies supported by Hillary Clinton.
Sadly, the Mendoza family is just one of thousands who have suffered the same fate.
Here is an excerpt from Mrs. Mendoza’s letter:
“Hillary Clinton, who already has the blood of so many on her hands, is now announcing that she is willing to put each and every one of our lives in harms’ way – an open door policy to criminals and terrorists to enter our country. Hillary is not concerned about you or I, she is only concerned about the power the presidency would bring to her. She needs to go to prison to pay for the crimes she has already committed against this country.”
Hillary also wants to spend hundreds of billions to resettle Middle Eastern refugees in the United States, on top of the current record level of immigration.
For the amount of money Hillary Clinton would like to spend on refugees, we could rebuild every inner city in America.
Hillary’s Wall Street immigration agenda will keep immigrant communities poor, and unemployed Americans out of work. She can’t claim to care about African-American and Hispanic workers when she wants to bring in millions of new low-wage workers
to compete against them.
Here are a few things a Trump Administration will do for America in the first 100 days:
Appoint judges who will uphold the Constitution. Hillary Clinton’s radical judges will virtually abolish the 2nd amendment.
Change immigration rules to give unemployed Americans an opportunity to fill good-paying jobs
Stand up to countries that cheat on trade, of which there are many
Cancel rules and regulations that send jobs overseas
Lift restrictions on energy production
Repeal and replace job-killing Obamacare -- it is a disaster.
Pass massive tax reform to create millions of new jobs.
Impose tough new ethics rules to restore dignity to the Office of Secretary of State.
There is one common theme in all of these reforms.
It’s going to be America First.
This is why the stakes in November are so great.
On election day, the politicians stand trial before the people.
The voters are the jury. Their ballots are the verdict. We don’t need or want another Clinton or Obama.
Come November, the American people will have a chance to issue a verdict on the politicians that have sacrificed their security, betrayed their prosperity, and sold out
their country.
They will have a chance to vote for a new agenda with big dreams, bold ideas and enormous possibilities for the American people.
Hillary Clinton’s message is old and tired. Her message is that can’t change.
My message is that things have to change – and this is our one chance do it. This is our last chance to do it.
Americans are the people that tamed the West, that dug out the Panama Canal, that sent satellites across the solar system, that built the great dams, and so much more.
Then we started thinking small.
We stopped believing in what America could do, and became reliant on other countries, other people, and other institutions.
We lost our sense of purpose, and daring.
But that’s not who we are.
Come this November, we can bring America back – bigger and better, and stronger than ever.
We will build the greatest infrastructure on the planet earth – the roads and railways and airports of tomorrow.
Our military will have the best technology and finest equipment – we will bring it back all the way.
Massive new factories will come roaring into our country – breathing life and hope into our communities.
Inner cities, which have been horribly abused by Hillary Clinton and the Democrat Party, will finally be rebuilt.
Construction is what I know -- nobody knows it better.
The real wages for our workers have not been raised for 18 years -- but these wages will start going up, along with the new jobs. Hillary’s massive taxation, regulation and open borders will destroy jobs and drive down wages for everyone.
We are also going to be supporting our police and law enforcement -- we can never forget the great job they do.
I am also going to appoint great Supreme Court Justices.
Our country is going to start working again.
People are going to start working again.
Parents are going to start dreaming big for their children again – including parents in our inner cities.
Americans are going to start believing in the future or our country.
We are going to make America rich again.
We are going to make America safe again.
We are going to make America Great Again – and Great Again For EVERYONE
In 8 days, we are going to win the Great State of Michigan and we are going to win back the White House.
Let me start today by making a very important promise. When we win on November 8th, I am going to bring back your jobs. The long nightmare of jobs leaving Michigan will be coming to an end. We will make Michigan the economic envy of the world once again.
The political class in Washington has betrayed you. They’ve uprooted your jobs, and your communities, and shipped your wealth all over the world. They put new skyscrapers up in Beijing while your factories in Michigan crumbled.
I will end the theft of American prosperity. I will fight for every last Michigan job.
Because, when we win, it’s going to be AMERICA FIRST.
So you have to make sure you get in your absentee ballots, and to get to the polls on November 8th. You have to vote. Vote with all of your heart and soul. Show the whole world how much you love Michigan, and how much you love America, by voting to take back the jobs that have been stolen from you. I’m asking for the vote of Republicans, Democrats, Independents and First-Time voters who want great jobs, safe neighborhoods, and a government that works for the people.
I’m asking you to believe in America once again.
But to bring back your jobs, we must also immediately repeal and replace Obamacare.
It’s just been announced that Michigan residents are going to experience crushing double-digit premium hikes.
In Minnesota, where the premium increase will be close to 60 percent, the Democratic Governor has said “the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable.”
Hillary Clinton wants to double-down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive – in fact, much more expensive. I’m asking for your vote so we can replace Obamacare and save healthcare for every family in Michigan.
Real change also means restoring honesty to our government.
As you know, the FBI has reopened its investigation into Hillary Clinton and has discovered another 650,000 emails. Hillary lied under oath when she said she turned over all of her work-related emails – just one more lie out of so many.
This is the biggest scandal since Watergate. Hillary wants to blame everyone else for her mounting legal troubles, but she has brought this all onto herself.  Hillary is the one who set-up an illegal private email server in a closet to shield her criminal activity.
Hillary is the one who engaged in a corrupt Pay-For-Play scheme at the State Department – and now there are 5 FBI probes into the Clinton Foundation and their pay-for-play activities.  Hillary is the one who sent and received classified information on an insecure server, putting the safety of the American people under threat.
Hillary is the one who lied to Congress under oath.  Hillary is the one who lied to the FBI.  Hillary is the one who made 13 phones disappear.  Hillary is the one who destroyed 33,000 emails.  Hillary is the one who broke the law over and over and over again. We can be sure that what is in those emails is absolutely devastating.
Hillary is not the victim – the American people are the victims of this corrupt system in every way, and this is your one chance to change it.
Hillary is likely to be under investigation for a very long time. One of her longtime supporters, a top Democratic Pollster, Doug Schoen, is now totally withdrawing his support. He wrote an article entitled “I’m a Democrat, I worked for Bill Clinton, but I can’t vote for Hillary.”
Schoen writes: “I am now convinced that we will be facing the very real possibility of a constitutional crisis with many dimensions and deleterious consequences should Secretary Clinton win the election.”
Schoen warns that if Hillary is elected, she would be under protracted criminal investigation – and probably a trial of a sitting President.
The investigation will last for years, a trial will probably start, nothing will get done, and our country will continue to suffer.
She is unfit and unqualified to be President, and her election would mire our government and our country in a constitutional crisis we cannot afford. We need to be going to work for the American people – we can’t do that with Hillary in the White House trying to avoid prosecution.
Hillary Clinton’s corruption is a threat to Democracy, and the only way to save our Democracy is get out and vote by the millions.
The Clinton crime spree ends on November 8th.  And when we close the chapter on the Clintons, we open a bright new chapter focused on the American People.
My Contract With The American Voter begins with a plan to restore honesty and accountability to our government.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and to heed the words we are all about to say. When we win on November 8th, We Are Going To Washington, D.C. And We Are Going To DRAIN THE SWAMP.
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back your jobs.
Michigan has lost more than 1 in 4 manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, a deal strongly supported by Hillary Clinton.
Before NAFTA went into effect, there were 280,000 auto workers in Michigan. Today, that number is only 160,000.  Our country has lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization – another Bill and Hillary-backed deal.
We have nearly an $800 billion annual trade deficit with the world. We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world.  Our trade deficit with China grew almost 40 percent during Hillary’s tenure as Secretary of State. Her trade deal with South Korea killed another 100,000 America jobs.
So when you look around Michigan, and you see the rusted-out factories, the empty buildings, and the long unemployment lines, remember: Hillary Clinton did much of this to you.
Hillary got rich selling your jobs – the same special interests who pushed the jobs out of America are the people who’ve given countless millions to the Clintons. Hillary gets rich making America poor.
Just look at the devastation.  Delphi laid off 3,627 workers here in Michigan. Most of those jobs went to Mexico.  We are going to fight for the workers at Delphi. They got a raw deal, and they deserve better.
– GM laid off 314 workers at the Lake Orion Assembly Plant in 2013 because of imports from the South Korean trade deal pushed through by Hillary Clinton.
– Lear Corporation laid off another 50 people in Rochester Hills and moved their jobs to South Korea.
– FTE Automotive laid off 166 people in Auburn Hills. Their jobs went to Mexico.
– Chrysler laid off over 5,300 workers. Those jobs went to Mexico, China, India and other countries.
– Ford laid off 2,155 workers. Those jobs went to other countries.
Now, Ford is moving all if its small car production to Mexico.
A Trump Administration will stop the flight of American jobs.
If Ford, or another company, announces they want to move their jobs to Mexico or another country, then I will pick up the phone – I will call the executives – and I will tell them that if they want do that, we will charge a 35% tax when they try to ship their products back across the border.
It used to be the cars were made in Flint and you couldn’t drink the water in Mexico. Now, the cars are made in Mexico and you can’t drink the water in Flint.
We are going to turn it all around.  We are going to rebuild Flint.  We are going to rebuild Detroit.  And we are going to rebuild Michigan.
I’d like to share a special message today with the African-American community in Michigan which has been so terribly harmed by the policies of the Clintons.
Look at the City of Detroit. It used to be the manufacturing hub of the world – now, nearly half of Detroit residents do not work, it has the second-highest violent crime rate in the country, and the children are trapped in failing government schools.
Yet, as the people of Detroit suffer, Hillary wants to spend trillions of dollars on government benefits for illegal immigrants and refugees.
I’ve outlined a plan for urban renewal, it’s called A New Deal For Black America. That deal includes a plan to use the money we will save by securing our border, and curbing refugee admissions, to invest in communities like Flint and Detroit.
It includes a pledge of school choice for African-American children.
My plan also includes a promise to cancel billions in climate change spending for the United Nations – a number Hillary wants to increase – and instead use that money to provide for American infrastructure, including clean water in cities like Flint.
My plan also includes a pledge to reduce violent crime – every child in this nation has a right to grow up in safety and peace.  And my plan includes a pledge to restore manufacturing in the United States.
Hillary and the Democratic Party have run the inner cities for years, and only produced more poverty. The time has come for real change – I’m asking you for the honor of your vote so that together we can turn decades of political failure into generations of lasting success.
Hillary, on the other hand, wants to destroy what’s left of manufacturing in Michigan with the Trans-Pacific Partnership.  A Trump Administration will stop the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
We will renegotiate NAFTA and, if we don’t get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal.  We are going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.  We are going to massively cut taxes for the Middle Class.
We will unleash American energy – including shale, oil, natural gas and clean coal. The Obama-Clinton war on coal is going to cost this state 50,000 jobs.
We will also work to restore and protect the Great Lakes.  We are going to become a rich country again.  But to be a rich country, we must also be a safe country.
Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syrian Refugees.  Hillary’s immigration plans mean generations of terrorism, extremism and radicalism spreading into your schools and communities here in Michigan.
When we win, we will suspend the Syrian Refugee Program – and we will keep Radical Islamic Terrorists out of our country.
A Trump Administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build a wall.
We’ve received the first-ever endorsement from our ICE and Border Patrol officers. They tell us the border crisis is the worst it’s ever been – it’s a national emergency. They also warn America that Hillary’s plan is the “the most radical proposal in U.S. history.”
When I become President, we will end illegal immigration, deport all criminal aliens, and put American Workers First.
We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military.
We also need a new foreign policy that puts America First.
Hillary led us to disaster in Iraq, Syria and Libya. Then, after Benghazi, she looked the families of the fallen in the eye and lied – she blamed it all on a video.
Hillary and our failed Washington Establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East, and now it’s in worse shape than ever before. Imagine if some of that money had been spent building new schools, roads and bridges right here in Michigan.
Now, Hillary – trapped in her Washington bubble that is blind to the lessons of the past – wants to start a shooting war in Syria in conflict with a nuclear-armed Russia, that could drag us into World War III.
The arrogant political class never learns. They keep repeating the same mistakes, they keep telling the same lies, they keep producing the same failed results.
How can Hillary manage this country when she can’t even manage her email server? It’s just one disaster after another, one scandal after another, one betrayal after another.
To all Americans I say: it is time for new leadership.
Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days –
We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan; eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation; cancel every illegal Obama executive order; rebuild our military and take care of our Vets; support the men and women of law enforcement; save the 2nd amendment; and appoint Justices to the Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Hillary wants us to think small, wants us to believe things can’t change, and wants our lives to revolve around Washington, D.C. I am asking you to dream big, to push for bold change, and to believe in a movement powered by the people and by their love for this country.
I’m tired of politicians telling Americans to defer their dreams to another day – when they really mean another decade.
America is tired of waiting. The moment is now.
All we have to do is stop believing in our failed politicians and start believing in each other and in our country.
There is no challenge too great, no dream outside of our reach.  Don’t let anyone tell you it can’t be done — the future lies with the dreamers, not the cynics and the critics.
Hillary has been there for 30 years, and she has accomplished nothing – she’s just made things worse.  She is the candidate of yesterday. We are the movement of the future.
Our movement represents all Americans, from all backgrounds, and all walks of life.  We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents, and first-time voters.
We are asking for the vote of every American who believes truth and justice – not money and power – should rule the day.
We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people – not the donors and special interests.
We are fighting to unlock the potential of every American community, and every American family, who hope and pray and yearn for a better future.
With your vote, we are just 8 days away from the change you’ve been waiting for your entire life.
Together, We Will Make America Wealthy Again.
We Will Make America Strong Again.
We Will Make America Safe Again.
And We Will Make America Great Again.
Welcome to all of you deplorables. Thank you, ma’am. Boy, oh boy. We’re going to have a good time tonight. We’re going to have a good time.
Wow. I love that. I love that. Look at this. Look what that says. Hold up that sign for the cameras. Wow. That’s so beautiful. Thank you. Great. Thank you. That is so nice. And we are doing well in every way. The polls have been incredible. But we’re doing great.
It’s great to be in my second home — Florida. And in the city of Miami, where I have so many wonderful friends and projects and employees. We have an amazing group. And all of you know Trump National Doral and we’ll go there. Let’s go and have some fun.
We have tremendous developments in Miami on the water and Doral in particular has been a tremendous, tremendous thing. So I really appreciate it. I love this city. I love the whole state. So, and I have a lot of employees. And I’m paying them a lot of money. And, by the way, a lot of African-American employees, a lot of Hispanic employees. A lot. And they’re very happy. They like Donald Trump.
So new polls have just come in. And we’re leading in many of the battleground states all over the country. Including being 4 points up in a certain state known as Florida. And the Los Angeles Times has us 6 points up nationwide. Good poll. If it weren’t, I wouldn’t be telling you about it, I promise.
But come Nov. 8, we’re going to win Florida, and we’re going to win the White House, and we’re going to make America great again. It’s going to be a victory for the people. It’s going to be a victory for the workers, the families, the veterans. The veterans — we love our veterans. And every citizen of this country. It’s going to be a victory for those who haven’t had reason to hope for a very long time. I’m campaigning in every community, every part of this country for every last vote.
I’m running to be a president for all Americans. I just had the most amazing afternoon in Little Haiti. Good place. Unbelievable people. And I’m going to be campaigning hard for their votes. And they are incredible people. Our support comes from all regions, all backgrounds and all walks of life — all. All of them. And, by the way, at Little Haiti they presented me with something that I figured I’d put on. Is that OK to put it on? They gave me that and I love it. I think it’s great.
Your cops and soldiers — thank you. I love you too. Carpenters and welders, accountants and lawyers, young and old, rich and poor, Black, white and Hispanic. But above all, we are together and we are Americans. We got to pull our country together.
Just today I was honored to get the endorsement of recipients of the Medal of Honor, brave people. And many, many of our most amazing military leaders, generals, admirals, amazing people, real fighters. They really know what they’re doing. We now have the endorsements of more than 160 top generals and admirals. I didn’t know we had that many. Well, we love them.
We also have the support of 16,500 border patrol officers. The first time in the history of the border patrol that they’ve endorsed any presidential candidate. As well as law enforcement officers, police, all across the country.
In fact, I’m very excited to announce tonight that we just received a few minutes ago the endorsement of the largest police union in the country, the Fraternal Order of Police. Number one by far. Pretty good. Pretty good.
And we have the support of millions of patriotic moms and dads who go to work every day and make our country run.
While my opponent slanders you as deplorable — and irredeemable! Boy that second word is tough. You don’t hear that as much. But that means you’re never going to come back, folks. And I know you’re going to come back. We’re going to come back so strong. We’re going to be so strong. Stronger than ever before. Irredeemable. They don’t talk about that one, but that was, to me, pretty bad. I call you hardworking American patriots who love your family and really, really, really love your country. Love your country.
Clinton’s entire campaign rests on using a single tactic, and it’s not working very well. She spent hundreds of millions of dollars on phony campaign ads. And we’re actually I think probably leading — based on everything we’re seeing — and we’ve spent practically nothing. I’m proud of that. And you know what? We’re doing very well. You know in the old days if you spent less and you had far fewer people and you were leading you got credit. Today they say well, she’s spending much more money. Yes, but she’s doing poorly, very poorly. But what they do is they smear opponents — and you look at her history — and they question policies. And they talk all the time about racist, racist. It’s the only word they know. They used it on Romney. They used it on everybody. They use it. When they’re in trouble, they always pull out the racist word. And they are in very big trouble, I have to tell you.
And for the most part we haven’t even started spending our money yet. And we have raised a lot of money. And I’m putting in my money. And I put in a hell of a lot of money. In fact, if things don’t work out, even though a lot of people are saying this was one of the great political phenomenas they’ve ever seen. They’ve never seen — they call it a phenomena. I will tell you. If it doesn’t work out, it will be a tremendous waste of time, energy and money. And she’s angry for even suggesting it. But we’re going to — hey look, Nov. 8 you go and vote. We’re winning. I’ll tell you what. If you vote, we’re winning. There’s no way they can beat us. There’s no way she can beat us because her people have no enthusiasm, whatsoever. They’re not going to turn out. They don’t have the enthusiasm. Who could possibly have enthusiasm? What are you getting?
You turn out, we’re winning big league. And I think — and they’re all saying the Trump people are going to turn out. We have a movement like they have never, ever seen in this country. And they say in terms of enthusiasm they have never had polling higher. So I think, I have very little doubt, turnout we’re going to have a tremendous Nov. 8. Probably we’ll say Nov. 8 plus the next four years and then four years after that, OK?
But the racist word, it’s the oldest play in the Democratic playbook, and Americans have had enough of it, OK. We get it. We get it.
I’ll tell you what, I just — I told you I just left Little Haiti. The love is unbelievable. It’s unbelievable. There’s no racist. There’s no nothing. It’s love. They want solutions. They want better lives, not more petty attacks from failed and totally discredited politicians like crooked Hillary Clinton. They want their immigration laws enforced and their border secured.
Let’s win on Nov. 8, OK? That’ll be —
They’re patriotic Americans of all backgrounds who want their jobs and their families protected. They want protection. People who warn about radical Islamic terrorism are not Islamophobes. Everyone’s an Islamophobe. You mention something you’re an Islamophobe. You know they come up with words. Hey, I went to Ivy League school. I did very well — great. They have so many new words. Islamophobe.
We have a president — and frankly Hillary — who don’t use the words radical Islamic terrorism. And if you don’t know what you’re fighting, you’re not going to fight it very well. And we’ve proven that. We have decent American citizens who want to uphold our tolerant values and keep our country safe. We want to keep our country safe. People who support the police, who want crime reduced and ended, and who are not prejudiced. They’re concerned and loving citizens whose hearts break every time an innocent child is killed, violently, on the streets, which is happening all over our country.
Yet while Hillary Clinton lives behind gates and walls and guards, and raises millions from hedge funds — you know look what she’s doing with these hedge funds, raising millions and millions. I know so many of these people. Give me a break. The hedge fund and the Wall Street donors she slanders and smears with her statements last week. Working people who just want a fraction of the security enjoyed by our politicians and certainly enjoyed by her.
Now you know she’s very much against the Second Amendment. She wants to destroy your Second Amendment. Guns, guns, guns, right. I think what we should do is she goes around with armed bodyguards like you have never seen before. I think that her bodyguards should drop all weapons. They should disarm, right? Right? I think they should disarm immediately. What do you think? Yes? Yeah.
Take their guns away. She doesn’t want guns. Take their — let’s see what happens to her. Take their guns away. OK? It’d be very dangerous. Her comments displayed the same sense of arrogance and entitlement that led her to violate federal law as secretary of State, hide and delete her e-mails, destroy her iPhones — with a hammer! With a hammer! Thirteen of them. Put classified information in the reach of our enemies, lie to Congress, and sell government favors and access through her foundation. It’s the same attitude of arrogance and entitlement that explains why she has never taken accountability for the disaster she created in Libya, Syria, Iraq, Iran and all over the world. Everything she touched, it just didn’t work out. Certainly it didn’t work out for our country.
It’s the same reason why she won’t take responsibility for her central role in unleashing ISIS all over the world. Her policies have created disaster overseas and poverty at home. We see it. Look, we see it. I drove here. We see it. We see it. I’m running to reverse these failures. And they are incredible failures. And create a new American future. And that future begins with prosperity at home. My economic agenda can be summed up in three words. And you’re going to like these three words. Jobs, jobs, jobs.
One of my highest priorities is to bring jobs into our inner cities. African-American communities have suffered horribly as a result of failed Democratic leadership. Democrats have run these inner cities for a half a century, for 60 years, 75 years, even in some cases 100 years straight. Unabated. Unbroken. Over 100 years. They control the mayor’s offices, the school boards, the city councils and the seats in Congress. And all they have delivered is more poverty, more crime and more failing schools.
Sixty-five percent of African-American children under the age of six now live in poverty. More than 3,000 people have been shot in the city of Chicago this year. This year. Think of it, since Jan. 1. Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth are not working. Can’t get a job. These are the results of the policies embraced by Hillary Clinton. And everyone knows that if she’s elected the inner cities will get nothing but more pain and suffering and crime and heartache.
Amazing people. Amazing country. We have an amazing country. And honestly you see the crime statistics. You’re African-American. You have the inner city problems that have been going on for ever. Forever. You have problems like nobody has. And you look at crime. You look at schools. You look at no jobs. Look at the worst education. Look how dangerous. You can’t walk down the street. You get shot or your child gets shot. And I’ve been saying it, and I’ll say it openly — and some people like it and some people don’t like it, and I don’t really care. What do you have to lose? I will fix it. I’m going to fix it. We’re going to fix our inner cities. We’re going to make them safe. We’re going to bring jobs back. So to the African-American people within the community, what do you have to lose? It can’t get — honestly, it can’t get — that’s so nice, thank you. It can’t get any worse. It can’t get any worse. It can’t get any worse. Thank you. So nice. Thank you. Thank you very much. It can’t get any worse, the crime, the jobs. No jobs. No education. Worst education. More unsafe — you go to Afghanistan, right. We hear Afghanistan. I mean we have cities that are far more dangerous than Afghanistan. Inner cities. African-American people within that community and outside of that community are going to be voting for Donald Trump in record numbers. You watch. We’re going to fix it.
Hillary Clinton has been in Washington for 30 years. Her disastrous record speaks for itself. And I have to tell you. When she ran for the United States Senate in New York, we have upstate New York which is a total disaster, economic disaster. She said she’s going to bring back jobs, jobs, jobs. She — anyway, she gets elected. We lost our jobs. It got worse. She didn’t do anything. She didn’t do anything. She went home. She went to sleep, OK. She didn’t do anything. She didn’t do anything. It got worse. Far worse now, it’s a total catastrophe. Just remember that.
When she tells you about jobs, when she tells you she’s going to fix trade deals, she wouldn’t know where to begin. She wouldn’t know where to begin. And besides that, to do that kind of thing, to negotiate great trade deals, to re-enhance our — I mean look. Our military is so depleted. We have the greatest people on earth. They’re using equipment that’s old. They’re flying planes that are old. You see what’s happening. It’s a depleted military. We have to have a strong military. We have to take care of our vets. We have to take care of our vets.
But to do these things you need a lot of energy. And she does not have the energy. And in my opinion she is totally unfit to be the president of the United States. The only people that she will deliver for, frankly, are her donors and her special interests. I’m going to deliver for you, believe me. The American people. We’re going to deliver. You’re gonna be happy. And those inner cities are going to see progress like they have probably, not probably. Like they have never seen. You watch. Like they have never seen. Thank you.
If we lower our taxes and we’re getting a massive tax reduction — and by the way, Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes substantially.
If we remove destructive regulations, unleash the vast treasure of American energy. We have so much energy. It’s being destroyed, our economic worth. And negotiate trade deals that put America first. Then there is no limit to the number of jobs we can create and the amount of prosperity we can unleash. There is no limit. Pay off our debt. Pay down our debt. Reduce taxes. Get rid of regulations. My first day in office I’m going to order a review of every single regulation issued over the last 10 years.
All needless, job-killing regulations will be immediately canceled. Millions of new jobs will come pouring in. And we’re going to lift the restrictions on American energy — which means at least another half a million jobs each year. They are being destroyed. And we’re unable to compete with other nations. Very simple. And that’s just the beginning. Also on my first day I’m going to ask Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare. It has turned out to be a disaster.
This alone will instantly save another two million jobs. And if you look at your premiums, it’s through the roof. And by the way, on Nov. 1, just before the election on Nov. 8, new numbers are coming out which will show 40, 50, 60 percent increases. They want to delay it until after the election because it’s election — it’s a disaster. It’s a disaster. And your deductibles are so high that unless you lead a really long, slow, vicious death, you’re never going to be able to use it, OK. Do you see the deductibles? You’re never going to be able to use it.
I’m also going to completely reform our trade deals. We’re going to renegotiate NAFTA. Probably the worst trade deal ever agreed to, signed in the history of the world, not in the United States. It’s destroyed our manufacturing in our country. It’s destroyed. And by the way, guess who signed it? Bill Clinton. You look at all of the places, Florida included. But you look at upstate New York, you look at Ohio, you look at Pennsylvania. You look at all of these different places have been destroyed. Absolutely destroyed.
You look at New England. Look what happened to New England. They’ve been destroyed by companies moving out, going into Mexico, firing everybody. Unemployment through the roof. We’re going to stand up to China, and keep America out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership — another catastrophe. TPP will be almost as bad as NAFTA. Nothing can be as bad as NAFTA. Trans-Pacific Partnership will be almost as bad as NAFTA. It’ll take your jobs, Ohio. Remember, it’s going to take your jobs, Ohio. I tell you that. Michigan. So many places.
TPP is a disaster. We don’t need another massive multinational deal, by the way, that nobody on our side even reads, that ties us up and binds us down and doesn’t even discuss monetary manipulation and devaluation, which is how China and all these countries are beating us so badly. Not even discussed. And they had provisions in the agreement, and they would take it out because certain politicians didn’t want to have them in there. I wonder why.
Another major reform is going to be school choice. And we’re going to terminate Common Core. And we’re bringing our education local. I’ve outlined a plan to provide every disadvantaged child in America the freedom to choose the private, public, magnet or religious school of his or her choice. This will help lift millions of poor African-American and Hispanic children out of poverty, something we are going to do. Since President Obama came into office another two million Hispanic Americans have fallen into poverty. It’s catastrophic. And it’s totally unacceptable. To the Hispanic community I say we are going to protect your jobs. We’re going to build up your schools. And we’re going to deliver safety and opportunity for your children. You have no safety. You have little opportunity.
This week I also rolled out a plan to help our mothers and our families get affordable quality child care for their children. Child care. Ivanka Trump, very much for child care. She’s been talking about that to me for two years, long before I even decided to go through this journey. And it’s not easy, I want to tell you. We speak in rooms like this. This is about 100 degrees right now. That’s considered a cool auditorium. And the reason is we have such big crowds like this one. Look at that. Every single corner. Unbelievable. These rooms weren’t designed for this many people. And it is hot in these rooms. And we stand up here and we talk. And we do two or three and sometimes we’ll be hitting four a day.
Do you think Hillary Clinton can get through one? You ever see her 18-minute speech? Bomb. Bomb. Bomb. See ya. See ya, I’m going home.
No. We’re doing it the right way. And frankly, when they spend hundreds of millions of dollars on advertising I don’t have to because I do it the old fashioned way. I come into your neighborhood, right. It’s a lot cheaper. It’s a lot harder work, but it’s a lot cheaper. Very true. Very, very true. On policy after policy we’re going to provide opportunity, prosperity and security for all Americans. We’re also going to stand with the Cuban people in their fight against Communist oppression.
No, we’re on the right side. Great people. They’re great people. The president’s one-sided deal for Cuba and with Cuba benefits only the Castro regime. People are very unhappy about it.
You know what’s interesting? When he landed the plane recently in China, right, they refused to give him a stairway out of Air Force One. Now that is a first in the history of Air Force One. So he used basically the mechanics’ stairs. That’s the stairs they drop down to get the mechanics up to fix the light bulb, right. When he landed the plane in Saudi Arabia, which we protect. Without us they wouldn’t be there for two months. He landed in Saudi Arabia. He wasn’t greeted by the top officials. Now what would I have done in those two cases? Bomb. Take me back to Washington, Jim. Let’s go. Right. Let’s go. Let’s go, Jim. Get going. Close those doors. We’re going home.
Now with Cuba, with Cuba we land in Cuba and there’s no Castro to greet him. The big leaders weren’t there to greet him. And I have a lot of Cuban friends. But you would have all done the same thing again. Jim, let’s close those doors. We’re going home. Right? Right? Let’s go, captain. We’re going home. We’re going into Washington. Maybe we’ll head into Miami actually. That’s not a bad idea. Terrible. That’s three. Three. Saudi Arabia, Cuba, China. Air Force One has never been treated so badly in its long and incredible history.
Air Force One used to land and people would respect the people inside. And they’d come out and there’d be all sorts of hoopla. Not anymore. It’s unbelievable. And these are countries that have benefited by us greatly. So we have to make great deals before we do anything with Cuba or anybody else, right. We’re going to make great deals. You’ll be happy. You’re going to be happy, I tell you.
How many people are from Cuba here? Come here. Tell me. Cuban. Cuban. Good. Do you agree with me? Do you agree? We’ll do it. But we’ll do it with great deals. And we’ll do it with democracy. And we’ll do it the way we have to do it. OK? We’ll do it the right way.
Where is Ms. Delgado? Does everybody know? What a great — where is she? She is so amazing. A.J. Where is A.J. Wow, she’s so — she’s become a tremendous star. Tell you one thing, when she’s representing me I wouldn’t do it anyway, but I can. Turn off the television. I’m well protected. Thank you. Great job. Thank you very much. Thank you, A.J.
But all of the concessions that Barack Obama has granted the Castro regime were done through executive order, which means the next president can reverse them. And that I will do unless the Castro regime meets our demands. Not my demands, our demands. You know what the demands are.
Those demands will include religious and political freedom for the Cuban people. And the freeing of political prisoners. The freeing of political prisoners. Right? Am I — is that right? Oh boy. Oh boy. What energy in this room. What energy. A lot of energy.
You’ll be very happy, my Cuban friends. I have so many friends from Cuba. Incredible people. So let’s also talk about a place called Venezuela. They — now who’s here from Venezuela? Or related in some — not too many. Whoa. Whoa. What’s going on? Not too many? Friend or foe? I think he’s friend. I think he’s friend. No, he’s OK. He’s OK.
By the way, is there any place more fun to be than a Trump rally? You tell me. Right?
Tell you. We have a lot of Venezuelans around Doral, the Doral section, right. And it’s a beautiful, vibrant — this is an amazing place. But they are really having trouble over in Venezuela. But Miami is filled with hardworking, incredible Venezuelan people. But it’s been hurt very badly by Socialist Venezuela. And the next president of the United States must stand in solidarity with all people oppressed in our atmosphere. And we will stand with oppressed people. And there are many.
The oppressed people of Venezuela, they are yearning to be free. They are yearning for help. The system is bad. But the people are great. Great. They are great people. Here in America I’ll push to expand freedom for all of our citizens. I’m going to lower your taxes so substantially. We’re getting rid of all of those regulations on business. So many small business owners here, I know five of them. One of them was small business now he’s big business. I’m proud of him. He’s right here. But we’re going to get rid of those terrible, terrible regulations.
He just said to me, and the thing that surprised me most, we’re bringing business tax rates down from 35 percent to 15 percent. And yet — it’ll be the greatest cut, I believe, in the history of our country. But I will tell you what surprises me tremendously is that the people that have these cuts, they’re more concerned with regulation than even a big tax decrease because regulations are choking and killing our businesses and stopping our businesses from hiring people, jobs. So I’m going to appoint justices of the Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution.
I’m going to rebuild our depleted — we’re going to take care of our, the vets. Who’s a vet? Who’s a vet? Where are my vets? Where are they? There they — OK. Now they’re standing up. Now they — I know we had a lot of vets here. Thank you, fellas. Thank you very much. We’re going to take care of our vets. We’re going to save your Second Amendment. Do you know if you look at some of the things, the catastrophes — you look at Orlando. You look at San Bernardino. You look at so many different — you look at Paris. The toughest gun laws in the world, they have it in Paris.
These thugs, these animals walked in and they just go bomb, bomb, bomb. Nobody had guns on the other side. If there were guns on the other side, just a few of them, number one, probably if they knew, they wouldn’t have attacked.
And number two, even if they did attack, it would’ve been a whole different story. One hundred thirty people killed. People massively injured, still in the hospital. Their lives are just destroyed. And if they had protection, if they had guns on the other side, with the bullets flying the other direction, it would’ve been a whole different story. So we’re going to protect your Second Amendment. And I’m going to stop illegal immigration and drugs from coming into our country. And yes, we will build a wall. We’ll build a wall. We will build a wall.
Who’s going to pay for the wall? One hundred percent. One hundred percent. And we’re going to be renegotiating NAFTA and our terrible trade deals. We’re going to make great deals out of horrible deals. And if we can’t renegotiate the deal because the other side is so, so happy with it, we’re going to terminate the deal and we’ll start all over again, folks.
We’ll have new deals. And they’ll be much better deals. And they’ll be two-way streets. The traffic, it’ll be coming our way. It’s a one-way street out of the United States for our jobs and our money. You know I always say we get the drugs, they get the cash. That’s the deal, folks. No good. They’re building in Mexico right now, and Mexico’s just one example, some of the greatest plants. A friend of mine builds plants. And he tells me all the time — I called him up the other day. I called him up six months ago, told me the same thing. Nothing changes. Ford. They just announced yesterday they’re moving their small car division, the whole thing, into Mexico. That’s on top of spending billions and billions of dollars. And then you wonder why I’m winning in Michigan. Because I’ve been telling the people in Michigan. I’ve been telling the people in Ohio for five years that this is happening. And our politicians don’t do anything about it. And Hillary Clinton will never do anything about it. She doesn’t have the capability to do it.
We will rebuild our roads and bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals. American cars will travel the roads. American planes will soar in the sky. They’ll soar. And American ships will patrol the seas. American steel will send new skyscrapers right here in Miami into the clouds. But it’ll be American steel. American hands will rebuild this nation. And American energy mined from American sources will power our energy. And we’ll take care of our steel workers. And we’ll take care of our miners who have been destroyed by this administration, destroyed.
And Hillary Clinton has already said she’s going to put the miners out of business. We’re going to take care of our miners. They’re amazing people. American workers will be hired to do the job. We will put new American steel into the spine of our country. I will fight for every neglected part of this nation. And I will fight to bring us all together as one people. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one flag.
It’s time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new, inclusive and prosperous American future. We’re not prosperous anymore. We owe $20 trillion. We have a president who in seven-and-a-half years has doubled the debt. Our country’s in trouble. A lot of people don’t know it, but our country’s in trouble. And we’re going to make sure that trouble never comes. Let me tell you. Jobs will return. Incomes will rise. And new factories will come rushing back to our shores. Once more we will have a government of, by and for the people.
We will make America wealthy again. We will make America safe again. We will make America strong again. And we will make America great again.
Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, Miami.